Capture build scans on ge.apache.org to benefit from deep build insights (#14)
pjfanning/sbt-pekko-build: README.md

# sbt-pekko-build

> Copies 3 features from different Pekko repos that are useful to share around our other Pekko repos.

Reviewer: this change was never in a Pekko repo, so this change is untrue

Author: @pjfanning Thank you for the feedback! I've reverted this change and created a separate section related to the new plugin.

* `-Dpekko.build.pekko.version=main` will find latest snapshot for `main` branch (December 2023 - this evals to `1.1.0-M0+...-SNAPSHOT`)
* `-Dpekko.build.pekko.version=1.0.x` will find latest snapshot for `1.0.x` branch

## PekkoDevelocityPlugin

> This autoplugin enables automatic publishing of Build Scan® for every CI build, as well as for every local build executed by an authenticated Apache committer, to the [Apache Develocity](https://ge.apache.org) instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This autoplugin enables automatic publishing of [Develocity](https://gradle.com/) Build Scan® for every CI build, as well as for every local build executed by an authenticated Apache committer, to the [Apache Develocity](https://ge.apache.org) instance.
```

Reviewer: Can we change this to only be CI builds? I am against forcing developers to submit results to Gradle. For me, it is against ASF principles to take results from user machines without their explicit opt-in.

I guess I am on the fence about plugging in proprietary build tooling. I have never used Develocity and have very little interest in using it. I actually feel a bit put out by the idea that I have to now use it to test this out.

Is there some kind of documentation about what info the tool ingests? Is there a contact in the ASF that has been involved with setting up Develocity who I can get some ASF tinged advice on whether it is a good idea for us to engage with this?

If Develocity causes us any issues, I will very quickly seek to remove it from our builds.

> To enable Build Scans publishing on CI the project needs to have `GRADLE_ENTERPRISE_ACCESS_KEY` environment variable set to the value of the Develocity access key as described [here](https://docs.gradle.com/develocity/sbt-plugin/#authenticating).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable build scans publishing on CI the project needs to have `DEVELOCITY_ACCESS_KEY` environment variable set to the value of the Develocity access key as described [here](https://docs.gradle.com/develocity/sbt-plugin/#via_environment_variable).
```

## PekkoDevelocityPlugin

> This autoplugin enables automatic publishing of [Develocity](https://gradle.com/) Build Scan® for every CI build, as well as for every local build executed by an authenticated Apache committer, to the [Apache Develocity](https://ge.apache.org) instance.

Reviewer: You will need to explain in detail how developers are going to authenticate and how they can opt out. No local builds can fail because a user has not set up auth for ge.apache.org.
I don't mind so much about CI builds but this mining of data from user laptops goes against the spirit of the ASF.

Reviewer 3: I think this should sit behind an sbt setting that can default to true in CI (specifically use sbt's `insideCI.value`) and false otherwise if people use it locally?

Reviewer: My understanding is that you need a develocity access key. I have raised an INFRA JIRA to have one set up for our GitHub CI builds. It looks like Develocity UI has a way to let logged in Develocity users to create their own access key for their own local builds. https://ge.apache.org/settings/access-keys

I guess that I have no major objection if people building on their own laptops have to set up the access key locally and that those who don't won't have their builds failing because they haven't done this.

Reviewer 3: In that case its pretty simple, we can do

```
if (insideCI.value
  enableDevelocity
else if (sys.env.get("DEVELOCITY_ACCESS_KEY"))
  enableDevelocity
else
  dontEnable
```

Reviewer 2: > My understanding is that you need a develocity access key.

@pjfanning Correct. An access key is needed if you want a build scan to be published (if interested, see [this section](https://docs.gradle.com/enterprise/sbt-plugin/#authenticating) in our user manual for details). The following condition `Publishing.onlyIf(_.authenticated)` is ensuring that a build scan is attempted to be published iff an access key is configured. No further logic is required.

Reviewer 2: > No local builds can fail because a user has not set up auth for ge.apache.org

@pjfanning I believe this is no longer perceived as an issue, but I wanted to confirm that no local builds will fail if a user hasn't set up an access key.

> I guess that I have no major objection if people building on their own laptops have to set up the access key locally and that those who don't won't have their builds failing because they haven't done this.

That's correct. It's opt-in to publish a build scan to the Apache Develocity instance (https://ge.apache.org/). Also, for the avoidance of doubt, no information is transmitted to Gradle. If a build scan is publish to the Apache Develocity instance, that's where the information will be living (until the data retention period is over, at which point they are deleted for good).
